index.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: #HackingGreat 4 @ Cybercom
---

\#HackingGreat 4 @ Cybercom
===========================

Pre-requisite information and general information for the #HackingGreat sauna evening by Cybercom.

Information about the Time and Place see Meetup registration page
<https://www.meetup.com/HackingGreat-Cybercom/events/238053879/>

Technical information and code are in Github repo <https://github.com/cybercom-finland/hacking-great-4>

Bring your own laptop with preferably Linux! Other operating systems can be 
made to work, but that is more work for you.

![Our walker, Pertti](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/CQKs2NtUAAA7XrZ.jpg:medium "Our walker, Pertti")

---

Tech Track 1: Capture-the-Flag - Nina Kuisma
--------------------------------------------

No information about the objective is revealed beforehand. 

To prepare you can search Capture the Flag from Internet.

### Prerequisites and tools:

* Prefereably a Linux laptop.
** Kali Linux is recommended. VM is fine.

---

Tech Track 2: Web-application and attacker (eg. DOS) scenario - Toni Ylenius 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Prerequisites and tools:

* Prefereably a Linux laptop
* SSH client to connect to the prepared system
* Vagrant if you want to create replicate the setup on you own laptop

---

Tech Track 3: Mobile maps with OpenStreetMap – Erno Mäkinen
----------------------------------------------------------- 

### Prerequisites and tools:

* A Linux laptop unless you want to install app to your phone in the 
  \#HackingGreat event. In the latter case you should have Windows or Mac 
  laptop and follow the deployment instructions at the site 
  <http://ionicframework.com/docs/v2/intro/deploying/> before the 
  \#HackingGreat event.
* Node.js (+ npm + serve) or ionic framework (see 
  <https://github.com/cybercom-finland/hacking-great-4/tree/master/t3-osm> for 
  details)

---

## Tools common for all the tracks:
* Your own laptop
* Code \(<https://github.com/cybercom-finland/hacking-great-4>\), using: `git clone https://github.com/cybercom-finland/hacking-great-4`

Commit message:

Added the Spotify collaborative playlist.

index.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: #HackingGreat 4 @ Cybercom
---

\#HackingGreat 4 @ Cybercom
===========================

Pre-requisite information and general information for the #HackingGreat sauna evening by Cybercom.

Information about the Time and Place see Meetup registration page
<https://www.meetup.com/HackingGreat-Cybercom/events/238053879/>

Collaborative Spotify playlist:
[http://open.spotify.com/user/cybercomfinland/playlist/3UjTaopdGCr4xc8TWUWKJH](http://open.spotify.com/user/cybercomfinland/playlist/3UjTaopdGCr4xc8TWUWKJH)
(Using your own account, click "follow", and then you can add songs to the playlist)

Technical information and code are in Github repo <https://github.com/cybercom-finland/hacking-great-4>

Bring your own laptop with preferably Linux! Other operating systems can be 
made to work, but that is more work for you.

![Our walker, Pertti](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/CQKs2NtUAAA7XrZ.jpg:medium "Our walker, Pertti")

---

Tech Track 1: Capture-the-Flag - Nina Kuisma
--------------------------------------------

No information about the objective is revealed beforehand. 

To prepare you can search Capture the Flag from Internet.

### Prerequisites and tools:

* Prefereably a Linux laptop.
** Kali Linux is recommended. VM is fine.

---

Tech Track 2: Web-application and attacker (eg. DOS) scenario - Toni Ylenius 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Prerequisites and tools:

* Prefereably a Linux laptop
* SSH client to connect to the prepared system
* Vagrant if you want to create replicate the setup on you own laptop

---

Tech Track 3: Mobile maps with OpenStreetMap – Erno Mäkinen
----------------------------------------------------------- 

### Prerequisites and tools:

* A Linux laptop unless you want to install app to your phone in the 
  \#HackingGreat event. In the latter case you should have Windows or Mac 
  laptop and follow the deployment instructions at the site 
  <http://ionicframework.com/docs/v2/intro/deploying/> before the 
  \#HackingGreat event.
* Node.js (+ npm + serve) or ionic framework (see 
  <https://github.com/cybercom-finland/hacking-great-4/tree/master/t3-osm> for 
  details)

---

## Tools common for all the tracks:
* Your own laptop
* Code \(<https://github.com/cybercom-finland/hacking-great-4>\), using: `git clone https://github.com/cybercom-finland/hacking-great-4`
